# idre
IDRE (Italian Dataset for Rephrasing with Empathy)

IDRE is a novel linguistic resource generated automatically for Italian comprising typical chatbot user utterances in healthcare domain, corresponding chatbot responses, and empathetically enhanced chatbot responses. These phrases were generated using the llama2 language model and evaluated by human raters based on predefined metrics.

The rating scale used is the following:
1.	Totally disagree
2.	Disagree
3.	Neutral
4.	Agree
5.	Totally agree


The specific metrics used in this evaluation are: Bot sentence correctness: 

•	Bot sentence correctness: measures the absence of spelling, grammatical, or punctuation errors in the question and the bot’s answer. The question used is: “Il testo della risposta con empatia è corretto sia dal punto di vista grammaticale che semantico.” 

•	Absence of English words in bot sentences: checks if there are any words or phrases in English within the sentences generated by the model. The question used is: “Nel testo della domanda del utente e della risposta del Bot (colonne QUESTION e ANSWER) non sono presenti parole o frasi in lingua inglese, a meno che non siano di uso comune in italiano (ad esempio “badge”, “sport”, ecc.)” 

•	Empathic answer correctness: measures the absence of spelling, grammatical, or punctuation errors in the bot’s answer with the insertion of empathy. The question used is: “Il testo della risposta con empatia è corretto sia dal punto di vista grammaticale che semantico.” 

•	Absence of English words in empathic sentences: checks if there are any words or phrases in English within the sentences with empathy generated by the model. The question used is: “Nel testo della risposta con empatia non sono presenti parole o frasi in lingua inglese, a meno che non siano di uso comune in italiano (ad esempio “badge”, “sport”, ecc.)” 

•	Semantic coherence: measures if the bot’s answer and the bot’s answer with empathy are semantically similar. The question used is: “La risposta con empatia ha lo stesso significato semantico della risposta del chatbot. Non ci sono concetti mancanti o contraddittori” 

•	Empathy increase: measures if the bot’s answer with empathy has an effective increase of empathy compared to the bot’s answer. The question used is: “La frase nella colonna ANSWER WITH EMPATHY esprime più empatia rispetto alla frase nella colonna ANSWER”
